Add content in modules/testing (#529)
PrestaShop/docs: src/content/1.7/modules/testing/resources.md

---
title: Testing Resources
weight: 10
---

# Testing Resources

## Docker images

Docker isolate your application in containers, making their isolation and deployment easier.
If you're confident with using it, we created several images for easier deployment of PrestaShop:

* https://hub.docker.com/r/prestashop/prestashop/, in which all PrestaShop releases between 1.4 and 1.7 can be found. Covers most needs and is perfect for a quick start.
* https://hub.docker.com/r/prestashop/prestashop-git/, containing the git repository content with different PHP version. For advanced users.
* https://hub.docker.com/r/prestashop/base/, containing the required stack to run PrestaShop, without the core files. Recommended if you already have the shop files on your disk.

> Please note we try to follow best practices, and the MySQL is NOT provided with these images. You have to deploy your own server in a dedicated container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note we try to follow best practices, and MySQL service is NOT provided with these images. You have to deploy your own server in a dedicated container.
```

When your environment is ready, it's time to configure it before running tests.

## Module management in command line

> From PrestaShop {{< minver v="1.7.2" >}}

> Managing your modules was only possible from the administration inferface. Continuous integration of modules may require preliminary steps like their installation, that's why we added a simple way to manage them in command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managing your modules was only possible from the administration interface. Continuous integration of modules may require preliminary steps like their installation, that's why we added a simple way to manage them in command line.
```

```bash
php bin/console prestashop:module --help
```

```term
Usage:
  prestashop:module <action> <module name> [<file path>]

Arguments:
  action                Action to execute (Allowed actions: install / uninstall / enable / disable / enable_mobile / disable_mobile / reset / upgrade / configure).
  module name           Module on which the action will be executed
  file path             YML file path for configuration

```

{{% notice note %}}
Use `php app/console` instead of `php bin/console` for versions prior to {{< minver v="1.7.4" >}}
{{% /notice %}}

### Basic actions

The basic actions are the same as you can see on the module list and only require the module name.

* install
* uninstall
* enable
* disable
* enable_mobile
* disable_mobile
* reset
* upgrade

Example:
```term
php bin/console prestashop:module install paypal
```

{{% notice note %}}
Use `php app/console` instead of `php bin/console` for versions prior {{< minver v="1.7.4" >}}
{{% /notice %}}

#### Multishop

> In case you want to run your action for a specific shop or shop group, you have two optionnal parameters ``--id_shop=<id>`` and ``--id_shop_group=<id>`` which modify the current shop context before calling the actual command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you want to run your action for a specific shop or shop group, you have two optionnal parameters ``--id_shop=<id>`` and ``--id_shop_group=<id>`` which modifies the current shop context before calling the actual command.
```

### Configuration

This feature allows an automatic configuration of your module but DOES NOT display the configuration page.

> This feature targets any developers who would like to test its modules after an installation without having to pass the configuration screen, or an agency who has a generic configuration to set on every shops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is intended for developers wishing to test their modules after an installation without having to pass the configuration screen, or a PrestaShop agency who has a generic configuration to set on every shops.
```

configuration:
    update:
        # Option 1: having a pair key/value
        PAYPAL_SANDBOX: 1
        PAYPAL_API_CARD: 0
        # Option 2: use "value" subkey. Will allow to use additional keys later
        PAYPAL_SANDBOX:
            value: 1
            multilang: false
        # Question: how to handle multi lang values ?
    delete:
        - "PAYPAL_ONBOARDING"

# SQL files to execute
sql:
    - file: "path/to/file1.sql"
    # But key is optional
    - "path/to/file2.sql"
    - "sql/default-config.sql"

# File to copy from local disk or website
files:
    - source: "/path/to/source/file.txt"
      dest: "/module/path/docs/file.txt"

    - source: "https://www.domain.wow/uri/of/file"
      dest: "/module/path/docs/another_file.txt"

# Fox complex configuration data, allow PHP code to be executed
php:
    - file: "path/to/file.php"
       # Must have a class which implements interface PrestaShop\PrestaShop\Adapter\Module\Configuration\ModuleComplexConfigurationInterface
      params:
        - myParam1: 1
        - oneArrayParam:
            - "value1"
            - "value2"
            - withSpecificKey: "value3"
```

## Core Functional tests

> PrestaShop provides its own test suite, running with selenium. It covers the features of PrestaShop and grows each time a bug is resolved or a feature is added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PrestaShop provides its own test suite, running with puppeteer. It covers the features of PrestaShop and grows each time a bug is resolved or a feature is added.
```

> These tests are launched every time a change is suggested to the core, but you can also run them with your module installed. You will certify it did not break a critical feature of the core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These tests are launched every time a change is suggested to the core, but you can also run them with your module installed. This will ensure your module code does not break a critical feature of the core.
```

> This section will be completed when these tests will be available on a dedicated repository. In the meantime you can already reach them on GitHub, in the [tests/E2E folder](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/tree/1.7.3.x/tests/E2E) of PrestaShop files.

Reviewer 2: @Quetzacoalt91 link should point to latest `develop` tests

Author: Indeed the folder is obsolete in the latest versions of PrestaShop. However I'm not in favor of relying on the develop branch, because if the folder disappear on a future minor version, this would lead the visitor on a HTTP 404.
Note this happened to the previous link. The folder tests/E2E does not exist anymore on the latest branches.
